What's up, my name is Dustin, and
I'm a developer here at Treehouse.
Today, I wanna take you through using the
JavaScript array method known as includes.
As the name suggests, this method checks
if an array includes a specific value
and returns true or false respectively.
Let's hop into some code and
see how this works.
Make sure to check out the description or
teacher's notes
down below for related resources.
If you're ready, let's get into it.
First, let's check out the official
MDN documentation for this method.
It's pretty straightforward.
According to MDN, the includes method
determines whether an array includes
a certain value among its entries,
returning true or false as appropriate.
Sounds pretty simple.
Let's practice it a bit.
I'll open up my text editor
with an empty app.js file,
and I'll run this file with Node.
If you're unfamiliar with Node or
don't have it installed,
you can run this code in your
browser's developer console.
Let's set up a brand new array, I'll call
this names and we'll throw in some names.
Let's write jamie, kandra, and taylor.
Underneath our array,
let's write a console.log method
and inside of that we can write our names
array and chain on our includes method.
Inside of our includes method,
let's write the string bob.
If I hit save and open up our terminal and
write node app.js,
you'll see we get back false.
And this is because bob does
not appear in our array.
Let's change bob with kandra.
I'll hit save and
run node app.js in my terminal again,
and this time we get back true.
This is because kandra
appears in our array.
This method is really straightforward but
can also do some complex things.
I'll link below a video where I
use the includes method to create
a dynamic search feature for a web app.
And that about covers it for
the includes JavaScript array method.
I hope this guide helped and
I'll see you in the next one.
Until then, have fun and happy coding.